## 2024-05-15-wed 05:01 -0600 (week 20 of 52)

Renarin,

It's been quite some time, hasn't it.  Words have power, as you well know.  You have voiced the ideals and have committed yourself to the path you are on.  As a result, you have gained new abilities and new allies.  I am truly happy for you.

All those many years ago, I had the privilege of your companionship.  You were entrusted to my care and I did care in the only way I knew how.  It was easier in those younger years when I seemed to have fewer thunderclasts hounding me.  Remember the rides we took in the back country or exploring the caves?  I would marvel with you as you described cremlings, haspers and even on one occasion, a larkin.  I loved how you would share your discoveries with me.  Making connections with you was easier then when I was classified as one of your heros.

As time moved on, it seemed all I could do to keep my head above the water from the storms.  The image of me being your hero wore thin and started to crack.  Perhaps words started taking on different meanings from their true intentions.  Perhaps you felt like you had to live up to your brother's image.  If I conveyed that, I am truly sorry.  It was never my intention for you to be a master of the sword.  It certainly was never for you to be a flawed copy of your father.  The only thing I have ever wanted for you is to discover who you are and to pursue your own mission in life.  But, again, words... perhaps at times you may have felt like you were being raised by a Herdazian father, whose tongue seemed uncivilized and barbaric.  When it comes to words, it is important for both the speaker and the listener to be of the same mind in order for meaningful communication to take place.  Both must remove creme from both mouths and ears.  Both must feel the other is no greater than the other, and no less.  Both should be allowed to respectfully share feelings without being judged as kayana.

While it might help if both of us were of the same order of Radiance, we can still enjoy familiarity and companionship with each other.  We simply choose common ground and establish boundaries that do not offend the spren we have bonded with and the ideals we have spoken.  We must be true to who we are and who we are becoming.  I don't think that necessarily means we have to live on opposite sides of Roshar.  I feel, if possible, a bond of friendship is still worth considering.  And imagine what we could do together with our combined abilities and strengths.  More importantly, I truly miss you and your family.  Oh, how I would love to bridge the chasms that currently lie between us.

That being said, the Weeping always follows the Highstorm.  And the journey we choose to follow is our choice alone.  But that doesn't mean we have to travel that path alone.  Know that I believe in you, I love you.  When words taken out of context are used to construct a house on the plains, the creme from highstorms will build up over time and can hide the true, original meaning of those words.  If possible, let us construct a new house, one built on true ideals and protected from the storms of misunderstanding.  Let the power of words be used for something good and edifying for the both of us, that we may have power to overcome the arrows and spears of the true enemy, Odium.

My son, Renarin, you have become an amazing man, and not just because you are a Truthwatcher Knight Radiant.  You are loyal and true to your wife, Ishekal and she to you.  You are a hard worker, ever learning how your high calling can be used to serve those around you and how you can be prepared for what ever obstacles may come.  You won't be caught in the Everstorm without your shard plate on!

As for the most important words a man may say, I would include the following: "I will forgive and ask for forgiveness that I may never suffer everlasting regret."  And I am sorry, my son, for the wrongs I have committed against you.  Please, forgive me.

Life before death.  Strength before weakness.  Journey before destination.


